Block Entities - Containers (#246)
FabricMC/fabric-docs: develop/blocks/inventory.md

---
title: Inventories
description: Learn how to add inventories to your blocks.
authors:
  - natri0
---

# Block Inventories {#inventories}

> In Minecraft, all blocks that can store items have an `Inventory`. This includes blocks like chests, furnaces, and hoppers.

Reviewer: Might be just me, but this kind of makes it sound like the `Inventory` interface is always needed to store any kind of ItemStack. Maybe mention it as "best practice" or something?

## Creating the Block {#creating-the-block}

This should be familiar to the reader if they've followed the [Creating Your First Block](../blocks/first-block) and [Block Entities](../blocks/block-entities) guides. We'll create a `DuplicatorBlock` that extends `BaseEntityBlock` and implements `EntityBlock`.

@[code transcludeWith=:::block](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/block/custom/DuplicatorBlock.java)

> Then, we need to create a `DuplicatorBlockEntity`, which needs to implement the `Container` interface. Thankfully, there's a helper called `ImplementedInventory` that does most of the work, leaving us with just a few methods to implement.

Reviewer 2: >  Thankfully, there's a helper called `ImplementedInventory` that does most of the work, leaving us with just a few methods to implement.

The tutorial mentions `ImplementedInventory`, but the code is never shown. I'd say that this could mislead someone into thinking it is a helper from Minecraft itself or fapi, which is not the case.

Is it feasible to embed the code for ImplementInventory, but make it collapsible, so it doesn't take up too much space on the page? ( something like `<details>`, but that doesn't work directly with a code reference )

Reviewer 3: Yes, one can do:

```md
::: details Show `ImplementedInventory`

@[code transcludeWith=:::whatever](@/reference/.../ImplementedInventory.java)

:::
```

though as you said the sentence implies it comes from Minecraft or API, which must be clarified

Don't forget to register the block and block entity in their respective classes!

### Saving & Loading {#saving-loading}

Just like with regular `BlockEntities`, if we want the contents to persist between game reloads, we need to save it as NBT. Thankfully, Mojang provides a helper class called `Inventories` with all the necessary logic.

@[code transcludeWith=:::2](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/block/entity/custom/DuplicatorBlockEntity.java)

## Interacting with the Inventory {#interacting-with-the-inventory}

Technically, the inventory is already functional. However, to insert items, we currently need to use hoppers. Let's make it so that we can insert items by right-clicking the block.

To do that, we need to override the `onUseWithItem` method in the `DuplicatorBlock`:

@[code transcludeWith=:::2](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/block/custom/DuplicatorBlock.java)

Here, if the player is holding an item and there is an empty slot, we move the item from the player's hand to the block's inventory and return `ItemActionResult.SUCCESS`.

> Now, when you right-click the block with an item, you'll no longer have an item! If you run `/data get block` on the block, you'll see the item in the `Items` field in the NBT.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, when you right-click the block with an item, you'll no longer have it! If you run `/data get block` on the block, you'll see the item in the `Items` field in the NBT.
```

> ![Duplicator block & /data get block output showing the item in the inventory](/assets/develop/blocks/inventory_1.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![Duplicator block and output of `/data get block` showing the item in the inventory](/assets/develop/blocks/inventory_1.png)
```

### Duplicating Items {#duplicating-items}

Actually, on second thought, shouldn't a _duplicator_ block duplicate items? Let's add a `tick` method to the `DuplicatorBlockEntity` that duplicates any item in the input slot and throws it out.

@[code transcludeWith=:::3](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/block/entity/custom/DuplicatorBlockEntity.java)

The `DuplicatorBlock` should now have a `getTicker` method that returns a reference to `DuplicatorBlockEntity::tick`.

<VideoPlayer src="/assets/develop/blocks/inventory_2.mp4" />

> ## Sided Inventories

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Sided Inventories {#sided-inventories}
```

By default, you can insert and extract items from the inventory from any side. However, this might not be the desired behavior sometimes: for example, a furnace only accepts fuel from the side and items from the top.

To create this behavior, we need to implement the `WorldlyContainer` interface in the `BlockEntity`. This interface has three methods:

- `getSlotsForFace(Direction)` lets you control which slots can be interacted with from a given side.
- `canPlaceItemThroughFace(int, ItemStack, Direction)` lets you control whether an item can be inserted into a slot from a given side.
- `canTakeItemThroughFace(int, ItemStack, Direction)` lets you control whether an item can be extracted from a slot from a given side.

Let's modify the `DuplicatorBlockEntity` to only accept items from the top:

@[code transcludeWith=:::accept](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/block/entity/custom/DuplicatorBlockEntity.java)

> The `getInvAvailableSlots` returns an array of the slot _indices_ that can be interacted with from the given side. In this case, we only have a single slot (`0`), so we return an array with just that index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `getSlotsForFace` returns an array of the slot _indices_ that can be interacted with from the given side. In this case, we only have a single slot (`0`), so we return an array with just that index.
```

> Also, we should modify the `onUseWithItem` method of the `DuplicatorBlock` to actually respect the new behavior:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, we should modify the `useItemOn` method of the `DuplicatorBlock` to actually respect the new behavior:
```

---

> title: Inventories

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Block Inventories
```

description: Learn how to add inventories to your blocks.
authors:
  - natri0

> ---
> 
> # Block Inventories {#inventories}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
---
```

Here, if the player is holding an item and there is an empty slot, we move the item from the player's hand to the block's inventory and return `ItemActionResult.SUCCESS`.

Now, when you right-click the block with an item, you'll no longer have it! If you run `/data get block` on the block, you'll see the item in the `Items` field in the NBT.

![Duplicator block and output of `/data get block` showing the item in the inventory](/assets/develop/blocks/inventory_1.png)

### Duplicating Items {#duplicating-items}

Actually, on second thought, shouldn't a _duplicator_ block duplicate items? Let's make it so that the block duplicates the stack you threw in it, but only two items at a time. And let's make it wait a second every time to not spam the player with items!

To do this, we'll add a `tick` function to the `DuplicatorBlockEntity`, and a field to store how much we've been waiting:

@[code transcludeWith=:::3](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/block/entity/custom/DuplicatorBlockEntity.java)

The `DuplicatorBlock` should now have a `getTicker` method that returns a reference to `DuplicatorBlockEntity::tick`.

> <VideoPlayer src="/assets/develop/blocks/inventory_2.mp4" />

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<VideoPlayer src="/assets/develop/blocks/inventory_2.mp4">Duplicator block duplicating an oak log</VideoPlayer>
```

- `getInvAvailableSlots(Direction)` lets you control which slots can be interacted with from a given side.
- `canInsert(int, ItemStack, Direction)` lets you control whether an item can be inserted into a slot from a given side.
- `canExtract(int, ItemStack, Direction)` lets you control whether an item can be extracted from a slot from a given side.

Let's modify the `DuplicatorBlockEntity` to only accept items from the top:

@[code transcludeWith=:::4](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/block/entity/custom/DuplicatorBlockEntity.java)

The `getInvAvailableSlots` returns an array of the slot _indices_ that can be interacted with from the given side. In this case, we only have a single slot (`0`), so we return an array with just that index.

Also, we should modify the `onUseWithItem` method of the `DuplicatorBlock` to actually respect the new behavior:

@[code transcludeWith=:::3](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/block/custom/DuplicatorBlock.java)

Now, if we try to insert items from the side instead of the top, it won't work!

> <VideoPlayer src="/assets/develop/blocks/inventory_3.webm" />

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<VideoPlayer src="/assets/develop/blocks/inventory_3.webm">The Duplicator only activating when interacting with its top side</VideoPlayer>
```

---
title: Block Containers

> description: Learn how to add containers to your blocks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to add containers to your block entities.
```

authors:
  - natri0
---

> In Minecraft, a best practice when creating blocks that can store items is to implement `Container`. It is implemented by blocks like chests and furnaces. This makes it possible to, for example, interact with the block using hoppers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's good practice when creating blocks that can store items, like chests and furnaces, is to implement `Container`. This makes it possible to, for example, interact with the block using hoppers.
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::save](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/block/entity/custom/DuplicatorBlockEntity.java)

## Interacting with the Container {#interacting-with-the-container}

Technically, the container is already functional. However, to insert items, we currently need to use hoppers. Let's make it so that we can insert items by right-clicking the block.

To do that, we need to override the `useItemOn` method in the `DuplicatorBlock`:

@[code transcludeWith=:::useon](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/block/custom/DuplicatorBlock.java)

Here, if the player is holding an item and there is an empty slot, we move the item from the player's hand to the block's container and return `InteractionResult.SUCCESS`.

Now, when you right-click the block with an item, you'll no longer have it! If you run `/data get block` on the block, you'll see the item in the `Items` field in the NBT.

![Duplicator block and output of `/data get block` showing the item in the container](/assets/develop/blocks/container_1.png)

### Duplicating Items {#duplicating-items}

> Actually, on second thought, shouldn't a _duplicator_ block duplicate items? Let's make it so that the block duplicates the stack you threw in it, but only two items at a time. And let's make it wait a second every time to not spam the player with items!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's now make it so that the block duplicates the stack you threw in it, but only two items at a time. And let's make it wait a second every time to not spam the player with items!
```
